Add docs (#23)
blitz-js/superjson: README.md

  </a>
</p>

## Key features

- 🍱 Reliable serialization and deserialization
- 🔐 Type safety with autocompletion
- 🐾 Negligible runtime footprint
- 💫 Framework agnostic

## Backstory

At [Blitz](https://github.com/blitz-js/blitz), we have struggled with the limitations of JSON. We often find ourselves working with `Date`, `Map`, `Set` or `BigInt`, but `JSON.stringify` doesn't support any of them without going through the hassle of converting manually!

Superjson solves these issues by providing a thin wrapper over `JSON.stringify` and `JSON.parse`.

## Getting started

Install the library with your package manager of choice, e.g.:

```
yarn add superjson
```

## Usage

The easiest way to use Superjson is with its `stringify` and `parse` functions. If you know how to use `JSON.stringify`, you already know Superjson!

Easily stringify any expression you’d like:

```js
import superjson from 'superjson';

const jsonString = superjson.stringify({date: new Date(0)});
```

And parse your JSON like so:

```js
const object = superjson.parse(jsonString);
```

> Alternatively, transform any JavaScript value into a JSON-compatible one by using our lower-level `serializer` and `deserializer` functions.

Reviewer: I think this should be `serialize` and `deserialize` cause these are the proper names for this functions.

> Alternatively, transform any JavaScript value into a JSON-compatible one by using our lower-level `serializer` and `deserializer` functions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Alternatively, transform any JavaScript value into a JSON-compatible one by using our lower-level `serialize` and `deserialize` functions.
```

  </a>
</p>

## Key features

- 🍱 Reliable serialization and deserialization
- 🔐 Type safety with autocompletion
- 🐾 Negligible runtime footprint
- 💫 Framework agnostic

## Backstory

> At [Blitz](https://github.com/blitz-js/blitz), we have struggled with the limitations of JSON. Modern databases often store complex types, like Date objects, but it impossible to easily `stringify` your responses without converting any object types to strings. Moreover, you often have to keep track of which fields you need to convert back to objects in your client!

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
At [Blitz](https://github.com/blitz-js/blitz), we have struggled with the limitations of JSON. We often find ourselves working with `Date`, `Map`, `Set` or `BigInt`, `JSON.stringify` doesn't support any of them without going through the hassle of manually converting!
```

Superjson solves these issues by providing a thin wrapper over `JSON.stringify` and `JSON.parse`. Look at the difference between manually converting invalid fields, and using Superjson to handle this for you:

> ```js

Reviewer 3: Nice idea, but I fear this example is a bit lengthy. Could ellipsize unnecessary lines?

    updatedAt: post.updatedAt.toIsoString(),
  })),
};

// api response
return JSON.stringify(serializableUser);

// fetch user from api response
const res = await fetch('/api/user');
const json = await res.json();

// restore fields
const user = {
  ...res,
  createdAt: new Date(res.createdAt),
  updatedAt: new Date(res.updatedAt),
  name: undefined,
  posts: res.posts.map(post => ({
    ...post,
    createdAt: new Date(post.createdAt),
    updatedAt: new Date(post.createdAt),
  })),
};
```

```js
// ✨ with superjson

// retrieve user object
const user = await db.user.findOne();

/* 
user = {
  id: 1,
  createdAt: new Date(1),
  updatedAt: new Date(2),
  name: undefined,
  email: 'me@here.com',
  posts: [
    {
      id: 1,
      createdAt: new Date(3),
      updatedAt: new Date(4),
      body: 'hello world!',
    },
  ],
}; 
*/

// api response
return superjson.stringify(serializableUser);

// fetch user from api response
const res = await fetch('/api/user');

// restore fields
const user = superjson.parse(res);
```

## Getting started

Install the library with your package manager of choice, e.g.:

```
yarn add superjson
```

## Usage

> The simplest way of using `superjson` is with its `stringify` and `parse` functions. If you know how to use `JSON.stringify` in JavaScript, you already know Superjson!

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The easiest way to use `superjson` are the `stringify` and `parse` functions. If you know how to use `JSON.stringify` in JavaScript, you already know Superjson!
```

> Simply stringify any expression you’d like:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Easily stringify any expression you’d like:
```

```js

> import { stringify } from 'superjson';

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
import SuperJSON from 'superjson';
```

Maybe do this and then `SuperJSON.stringify` to make the similarities to `JSON.stringify` obvious

Reviewer 3: Tbh, I don't think we need to include the `import` line in the example. That one should be self-explanatory :D

const json = stringify({date: new Date(0)});
```

And parse your JSON like so:

```js
import { parse } from 'superjson';

> const object = stringify(json);

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
const object = parse(json);
```

```

> Alternatively, you can use our lower-level `serializer` and `deserializer` functions. These transform any JavaScript expression into an object which is valid for JSON serialization.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Alternatively, transform any JavaScript value into a JSON-compatible one by using our lower-level `serializer` and `deserializer` functions.
```

Reviewer 3: (I like to put the desired outcome first before the solution, makes it easier to find what you're looking for)

For example:

```js
const object = {
  normal: 'string',
  timestamp: new Date(),
  test: /superjson/,
};

const {json, meta} = serialize(object);

/*
json = {
  normal: 'string',
  timestamp: "2020-06-20T04:56:50.293Z",
  test: "/blitz/",
};

// note that `normal` is not included here; `meta` only has special cases
meta = {
  timestamp: 'date',
  test: 'regexp',
};
*/
```

## API

Superjson supports many extra types which JSON does not. You can serialize all these:

> | type        | supported by standard JSON? |

Reviewer 3: maybe add another `superjson` column where all checkmarks are green?
This also has the potential to include some Easter egg ;D

  </a>
</p>

## Key features

- 🍱 Reliable serialization and deserialization
- 🔐 Type safety with autocompletion
- 🐾 Negligible runtime footprint
- 💫 Framework agnostic

## Backstory

At [Blitz](https://github.com/blitz-js/blitz), we have struggled with the limitations of JSON. We often find ourselves working with `Date`, `Map`, `Set` or `BigInt`, but `JSON.stringify` doesn't support any of them without going through the hassle of converting manually!

Superjson solves these issues by providing a thin wrapper over `JSON.stringify` and `JSON.parse`.

## Getting started

Install the library with your package manager of choice, e.g.:

```
yarn add superjson
```

## Usage

> The easiest way to use Superjson` is with its `stringify` and `parse` functions. If you know how to use `JSON.stringify`, you already know Superjson!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The easiest way to use Superjson is with its `stringify` and `parse` functions. If you know how to use `JSON.stringify`, you already know Superjson!
```

Easily stringify any expression you’d like:

```js
import superjson from 'superjson';

> const json = superjson.stringify({date: new Date(0)});

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
const jsonString = superjson.stringify({date: new Date(0)});
```

```

And parse your JSON like so:

```js

> const object = superjson.parse(json);

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
const object = superjson.parse(jsonString);
```

## Usage

> The easiest way to use Superjson` is with its `stringify` and `parse` functions. If you know how to use `JSON.stringify`, you already know Superjson!

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The easiest way to use Superjson is with its `stringify` and `parse` functions. If you know how to use `JSON.stringify`, you already know Superjson!
```

## API

### serialize

Serializes any JavaScript value into a JSON-compatible object.

#### Examples

```js
const object = {
  normal: 'string',
  timestamp: new Date(),
  test: /superjson/,
};

const {json, meta} = serialize(object);
```

> Returns **`json and meta, both JSON values.`**

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Returns **`json` and `meta`, both JSON-compatible values.**
```

Reviewer 3: Could you help me understand why you chose this to be bold? 😊

## deserialize

Deserializes the output of Superjson back into your original value.

#### Examples

```js
const {json, meta} = serialize(object);

deserialize({json, meta});
```

> Returns **`your original value`**

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Returns **`your original value`**.
```

### stringify

Serializes and then stringifies your JavaScript value.

#### Examples

```js
const object = {
  normal: 'string',
  timestamp: new Date(),
  test: /superjson/,
};

const jsonString = stringify(object);
```

> Returns **`string`**

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Returns **`string`**.
```

### parse

> Parses and then deserializes your the JSON string of `stringify`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Parses and then deserializes the JSON string returned by `stringify`.
```

#### Examples

```js
const jsonString = stringify(object);

parse(jsonString);s
```

> Returns **`string`**

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Returns **`string`**.
```

> ***

Reviewer 3: What does this do? 😅

<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->
<!-- ALL-CONTRIBUTORS-LIST:END -->

This project follows the [all-contributors](https://github.com/all-contributors/all-contributors) specification. Contributions of any kind welcome!

## Prior art

> There are many libraries similar to Superjson:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Other libraries that aim to solve a similar problem:
```
